CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to `wasmtime-py`

`wasmtime-py` is a [Bytecode Alliance] project. It follows the Bytecode
Alliance's [Code of Conduct] and [Organizational Code of Conduct].

So far this extension has been written by folks who are primarily Rust
programmers, so feel free to create a PR to help make things more idiomatic if
you see something!

## Set Up

You'll need to acquire a [Wasmtime] installation. The `wasmtime-py` package
expects your platform's shared library to exist at `wasmtime/{host}/_{library}`.
You can download the latest development version of Wasmtime by running a script
in the top-level directory of the package's source (this is what CI does):

[wasmtime]: https://wasmtime.dev/

```sh
$ python ci/download-wasmtime.py
```

Otherwise if you have a local checkout of Wasmtime you can symlink its
`libwasmtime.so` (or equivalent) to `wasmtime/linux-x86_64/_libwasmtime.so` (or
equivalent).

Next the bindings generation requires compiling some Rust code to WebAssembly,
which can be done with:

```sh
$ python ci/build-rust.py
```

Finally, install the dev dependencies with `pip`:

```
$ pip install -e ".[testing]"
```

## Testing

After you've completed the set up steps, you can run the tests locally with
`pytest`:

```
$ pytest
```

### CI and Releases

The CI for this project does a few different things:

* API docs are generated for pushes to the `main` branch and are [published
  online][apidoc].

* Test coverage information is generated for pushes to the `main` branch and are
  [available online](https://bytecodealliance.github.io/wasmtime-py/coverage/).

* Each push to `main` will publish a release to
  [test.pypi.org](https://test.pypi.org/project/wasmtime/) for local inspection.

* Tagged commits will automatically be published to
  [pypi.org](https://pypi.org/project/wasmtime/).

All commits/PRs run the full test suite, and check for code style
and other errors using [flake8](https://flake8.pycqa.org/).

[Bytecode Alliance]: https://bytecodealliance.org/
[Code of Conduct]: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
[Organizational Code of Conduct]: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime/blob/main/ORG_CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
[Wasmtime]: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime
[apidoc]: https://bytecodealliance.github.io/wasmtime-py/

Commit message:

Support Windows on ARM64 (#268)
* Support Windows on ARM64

* Update workflow

* Fix type annotations

* Updated the docs for gcc requirements

* Fix platform for Windows

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to `wasmtime-py`

`wasmtime-py` is a [Bytecode Alliance] project. It follows the Bytecode
Alliance's [Code of Conduct] and [Organizational Code of Conduct].

So far this extension has been written by folks who are primarily Rust
programmers, so feel free to create a PR to help make things more idiomatic if
you see something!

## Set Up

You'll need to acquire a [Wasmtime] installation. The `wasmtime-py` package
expects your platform's shared library to exist at `wasmtime/{host}/_{library}`.
You can download the latest development version of Wasmtime by running a script
in the top-level directory of the package's source (this is what CI does):

[wasmtime]: https://wasmtime.dev/

```sh
$ python ci/download-wasmtime.py
```

Otherwise if you have a local checkout of Wasmtime you can symlink its
`libwasmtime.so` (or equivalent) to `wasmtime/linux-x86_64/_libwasmtime.so` (or
equivalent).

Next the bindings generation requires compiling some Rust code to WebAssembly.
This requires the `wasip1` Rust target be installed (`rustup target add wasm32-wasip1`)
as well as `wasm-tools` (`cargo install wasm-tools`), and then run:

```sh
$ python ci/build-rust.py
```

Finally, install the dev dependencies with `pip`:

```
$ pip install -e ".[testing]"
```

## Testing

On Windows, the below will require `gcc` to be installed locally and on the PATH.
The easiest way to do this is via an installer such as `https://github.com/msys2/msys2-installer/releases/download/2024-12-08/msys2-x86_64-20241208.exe`,
and then in the MSYS2 terminal run the command `pacman -S --needed base-devel mingw-w64-ucrt-x86_64-toolchain` to install GCC. Put `C:\msys64\ucrt64\bin` (or
wherever you installed GCC to) on the end of the PATH (if earlier on the PATH its
version of Python may get picked up before the desired version).

After you've completed the set up steps, you can run the tests locally with
`pytest`:

```
$ pytest
```

### CI and Releases

The CI for this project does a few different things:

* API docs are generated for pushes to the `main` branch and are [published
  online][apidoc].

* Test coverage information is generated for pushes to the `main` branch and are
  [available online](https://bytecodealliance.github.io/wasmtime-py/coverage/).

* Each push to `main` will publish a release to
  [test.pypi.org](https://test.pypi.org/project/wasmtime/) for local inspection.

* Tagged commits will automatically be published to
  [pypi.org](https://pypi.org/project/wasmtime/).

All commits/PRs run the full test suite, and check for code style
and other errors using [flake8](https://flake8.pycqa.org/).

[Bytecode Alliance]: https://bytecodealliance.org/
[Code of Conduct]: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
[Organizational Code of Conduct]: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime/blob/main/ORG_CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
[Wasmtime]: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime
[apidoc]: https://bytecodealliance.github.io/wasmtime-py/
